## Sensitivity
This folder contains the files for the sensitivity exercises carried out in Section 7 of the paper. In particular, we provide the workfiles for Subsections 7.1 and 7.2.

### Subfolder: Consumption_Investment_VA
This folder contains the files used to carry out the sensitivity analysis in Section 7.1 of the paper, called "Consumption Value Added vs Investment Value Added". 

In this excercise, we use input-output data for the US to compute the time series of the High- and Low-Skill Sectors' shares of Value Added in producer’s prices that are generated by final expenditure on consumption and investment (in producer’s prices). Data are available every five years between 1977 and 2002 and anually between 1997 and 2005. For simplicity, and to be consistent with the period used in our benchmark results, we use data for 2005, 2002, 1997, 1992, 1987, 1982, 1977.

#### 1977
**IOprocessing1977.m:** a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 
* **Inputs:**

    * *2digit_tables1977/IOuse.xlsx:* the industry by commodity use table, which is built by unstacking columns A, B, and C from the file *77IO85-levelexcel/1977 Transactions 85-level Data.xls*.
    * *2digit_tables1977/IxCTR.xlsx:* the industry by commodity total requirement table, which is built by unstacking columns A, B, and G from the file *77IO85-levelexcel/1977 Transactions 85-level Data.xls*.
    
* **Output:** A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *1977* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 1982
**IOprocessing1982.m:**  a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *2digit_tables1982/ndn0125/82-2dall.txt*: a file containing all the transactions to build the Industry by Commodity Total Requirements and Industry by Commodity Use Tables.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *1982* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 1987
**IOprocessing1987.m:**  a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *2digit_tables1987/ndn0019/IOUSE.xlsx:* the industry by commodity use table, which is built by combining the files *ndn0019/TBL1-87.DTA* to *ndn0019/TBL8-87.DTA*.
    * *2digit_tables1987/ndn0019/IXCTR.xlsx:* the industry by commodity total requirements table, which is built by combining the files *ndn0019/TBL1-87.DTA* to *ndn0019/TBL8-87.DTA*.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *1987* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 1992
**IOprocessing1992.m:**  a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *2digit_tables1992/ndn0180/IXCTR.txt:* a file containing the data for the total requirements table.
    * *2digit_tables1992/ndn0180/IOUSE.txt:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity use table.
    * *2digit_tables1992/ndn0180/io-code.txt:* a file containing the industry codes to build the tables.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *1992* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 1997
**IOprocessing1997.m:** a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *summarytables1997/IOUseSummary.xlsx:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity use table.
    * *summarytables1997/IndByComTRSum.xlsx:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity total requirements table.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *1997* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 2002
**IOprocessing2002.m:** a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *summarytables2002/2002_Requirements_summary.xlsx:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity total requirements table.
    * *summarytables1997/2002_IOMakeUse_summary.xlsx:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity make and use tables.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *2002* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

#### 2005
**IOprocessing2005.m:** a Matlab code that takes data from the input-output table and produces data on value added by industry generated by final expenditures in consumption and investment. 

* **Inputs:**
    * *summarytables2005/IxC_TR_2005_AR_PROD_SUM.xls:*  a file containing the data for the industry by commodity total requirements table.
    * *summarytables2005/IO_Use_2005_AR_PROD_SUM.xls:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity use tables.
    * *summarytables2005/IO_Make_2005_AR_PROD_SUM.xls:* a file containing the data for the industry by commodity make tables.

* **Output:**  A table with the data on the value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures by industry. This table is exported to the excel spreadsheet *Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx* sheet *2005* where industries are classified into High- and Low-Skill and the consumption and investment value added shares are computed.

**Historical_IO_Results_Summary.xlsx:** this spreadsheet takes the data on value added generated by final expenditures on consumption and investment, assigns industries to the High- and Low-Skill sector and computes the share of value added generated by consumption and investment expenditures that corresponds to the High-Skill sector. Time series with the results are presented on the worksheet *Summary and Figures*.

### Subfolder: Trade

* *US Trade Data.xlsx:* this Excel file contains the calculations performed to adjust the shares of value added in the high- and low-skill sector for sectoral net trade flows, as described in Section 7.2 of the paper. 

    * **Inputs:** the exercise uses annual data on trade of goods and services for the U.S. (Balance of Payment Basis) from the U.S. Census Bureau, which is stored in the worksheet *Trade*. It also requires a time series on the U.S. GDP, which we obtain from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and store in the sheet U.S. GDP.
    * **Output:** two time series of the net trade flows for the high- and low-skill sector. Due to data limitations, to compute this series we assume that the net trade in services corresponds to the net trade flow in the high-skill sector, while the net trade in goods represents the trade flow in the low-skill sector. 
    
The Bureau of Economic Analysis provides data for the U.S. trade in services by type of service since 1999. We use these data to validate our assumption that the net trade in services is close to the net trade flow for the high-skill sector. Columns I to L in the Sheet Calculated Series confirm that that is indeed the case.
